1
pfSense
OPT¶
OPT or Optional interfaces refer to any additional interfaces other than WAN and LAN. OPT interfaces can be additional LAN segments, WAN connections, DMZ segments, interconnections to other private networks, and so on.





2
pfSense
SOHO stands for Small Office and Home Office Networks. It allows computers in a home office or remote office to connect to a corporate network, or access centralized, shared resources. It is a LAN (local area network) mainly referred to as a business category involving a small number of workers usually from 01 to 10. 




3
pfSense
In networking, A DMZ is an area where public servers are reachable from the Internet via the WAN but isolated from the LAN. The DMZ keeps the systems in other segments from being endangered if the network is compromised, while also protecting hosts in the DMZ from other local segments and the Internet in general.





4
pfSense
The name of a FreeBSD interface starts with the name of its network driver. It is then followed by a number starting at 0 that increases incrementally by one for each additional interface sharing that driver. For example, a common driver used by Intel gigabit network interface cards is igb. The first such card in a firewall will be igb0, the second is igb1, and so on.





5
pfSense
There is a wealth of additional information and user experiences available on the various Netgate websites. The best way to search the sites is a Google search appending site:netgate.com to the query. This will search the website, forum, documentation, etc. which are all official sources of information.







6
pfSense
For several essential and optional services, such as checking for updates, installing updates and packages, and the Auto Config Backup service, pfSense® software makes outgoing connections to servers owned and operated by Netgate.







7
pfSense
If administrators activate the Netgate Service and Support widget on the pfSense software GUI Dashboard, pfSense software will query Netgate servers to obtain the current support status, a list of web links, and other information to help administrators make the best use of their support options. This query occurs no more than once every 24 hours.







8
pfSense
To check for updates to pfSense software, navigate to System > Update or, if the System Information widget is active and configured to check for updates, visit the Dashboard. To install new packages or check for updates to installed packages, navigate to System > Package Manager.







9
pfSense
Netgate offers an automatic configuration backup service, known as Auto Config Backup or ACB, which is free for anyone to use.

When pfSense software makes a backup via ACB, either automatically or manually, it encrypts the config.xml configuration file using AES-256 and a key provided by the administrator with options suitable for file encryption.







10
pfSense
pfSense software also transmits a unique and random “device key” to privately identify which backups belong to a given installation.

This device key must be unique to each firewall backing up its configuration. To do this the key is automatically generated by taking the SHA256 hash of the SSH service keys on the installation. This allows ACB to reliably and properly identify ownership of each backup in an anonymous way.







11
pfSense
Bogon networks are those which should never be seen on the Internet, including reserved and unassigned IP address space.

If any interfaces are configured to Block Bogon Networks, then shortly after initial installation and once per month after that, pfSense software will contact Netgate servers to obtain an updated list of Bogon Networks.





12
pfSense
The standard size IPv6 subnet defined by the IETF is a /64, which contains 2 64 IPs, or 18.4 quintillion addresses. The entire IPv4 space can fit inside a typical IPv6 subnet many times over with room to spare.
https://docs.netgate.com/pfsense/en/latest/network/ipv6/basics.html






13
pfSense






14
pfSense






15
pfSense






16
pfSense






17
pfSense






18
pfSense






19
pfSense






20
pfSense






21
pfSense






22
pfSense






23
pfSense






24
pfSense






25
pfSense






26
pfSense






27
pfSense






28
pfSense






29
pfSense






30
pfSense






31
pfSense






32
pfSense






33
pfSense






34
pfSense






35
pfSense






36
pfSense






37
pfSense






38
pfSense






39
pfSense






40
pfSense